Doc 11873 3.2 GA (#893)
couchbaselabs/docs-couchbase-lite: modules/android/pages/working-with-vector-search.adoc

Reduces the number of dimensions and bits per dimension

|Training Size
|image:ROOT:no.png[]
a|There are defaults for both the minimum and maximum training size for training the vectors

* The minimum training size is set to 25x the number of Centroids or 2 ^PQ's^ ^bits^ when PQ is used

> * The maximum training size is set to 256x the number of Centroids or 2 ^PQ's^ ^bits^ when PQ is used

Reviewer: Looking at the preview, I don't think it's immediately obvious with the raised text, so maybe spell it out "2 to the power of PQ's bits"?

----

> . First, create the standard configuration, setting up an expressions, number of dimensions and number of centroids for the vector embedding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. First, create the standard configuration, setting up an expression, number of dimensions and number of centroids for the vector embedding.
```

Author: Good spot!

> . Next, create a vector index, `colors_index`, on a collection and pass it our configuration.

Reviewer: Style rule: avoid first person

```suggestion
. Next, create a vector index `colors_index` on a collection, and pass the configuration to it.
```

Author: Will address these post GA

----

> . First, create the standard configuration, setting up an expressions, number of dimensions and number of centroids for the vector embedding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. First, create the standard configuration, setting up an expression, number of dimensions and number of centroids for the vector embedding.
```

> . Next, create a vector index, `colors_index`, on a collection and pass it our configuration.

Reviewer: Avoid "our" again

Author: Resolved these

NOTE: You can use less storage by using the `prediction()` function as the encoded vectors will only be stored in the index. 
However, the index time will be longer as vector embedding generation is occurring at run time.

== Create a Lazy Vector Index

Lazy indexing is an alternate approach to using the standard predictive model with regular vector indexes which handle the indexing process automatically.

> You can use lazy indexing to use a ML model that is not available locally on the device and to create vector indexes without having vector embeddings in the documents.

Reviewer 2: I could be wrong about this. 
```suggestion
You can use lazy indexing to use an ML model that is not available locally on the device and to create vector indexes without having vector embeddings in the documents.
```

Author: I get what you mean. I'll leave as is for now as I _think_ a machine learning model reads correctly compared to an ❓ 😖

[tabs]
=====

Java::
+
--
[source, java]
----

include::java:example$snippets/common/main/java/com/couchbase/codesnippets/VectorSearchExamples.java[tags=vs-lazy-index-config, indent=2]

----

You can enable lazy vector indexing by setting the `isLazy` property to `true` in your vector index configuration.

--

Kotlin::
+
--
[source, kotlin]
----

include::example$kotlin_snippets/app/src/main/kotlin/com/couchbase/codesnippets/VectorSearchExamples.kt[tags=vs-lazy-index-config,indent=2]

----

You can enable lazy vector indexing by setting the `isLazy` property to `true` in your vector index configuration.

--
=====

> NOTE: Lazy Vector Indexing is opt in functionality, the `isLazy` property is set to `false` by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: Lazy Vector Indexing is opt-in functionality, the `isLazy` property is set to `false` by default.
```

Author: Good spot, hyphenation is always a sticking point for me

=== Updating the Lazy Index

Below is an example of how you can update your lazy index.

[tabs]
=====

Java::
+
--
[source, java]
----

include::java:example$snippets/common/main/java/com/couchbase/codesnippets/VectorSearchExamples.java[tags=vs-create-lazy-index-embedding, indent=2]

----

> You procedurally update the vectors in the index by looping through the vectors in batches equivalent to the `limit` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You procedurally update the vectors in the index by looping through the vectors in batches until you reach the value of the `limit` parameter.
```

The update process follows the following sequence:

. Get a value for the updater.

.. If the there is no value for the vector, handle it. 
In this case, the vector will be skipped and considered the next time `beginUpdate()` is called.
+
NOTE: A key benefit of lazy indexing is that the indexing process continues if a vector fails to generate.
For standard vector indexing, this will cause the affected documents to be dropped from the indexing process.
+
. Set the vector from the computed vector derived from the updater value and your ML model.

.. If there is no value for the vector, this will result in the underlying document to not be indexed.

. Once all vectors have completed the update loop, finish updating.

--

Kotlin::
+
--
[source, kotlin]
----

include::example$kotlin_snippets/app/src/main/kotlin/com/couchbase/codesnippets/VectorSearchExamples.kt[tags=vs-create-lazy-index-embedding,indent=2]

----

> You procedurally update the vectors in the index by looping through the vectors in batches equivalent to the `limit` parameter.

Reviewer 2: See previous comment
